hi I'm Melissa wood of professional boat
builder magazines I'm Earl Baldwin with
a Fiat manufacturing and Tim Chalfont
also with Tam Fiat manufacturing
today we're at FX 2014 in champa and
Earl is going to tell us about Bose they
brought to the show
this is caveat 44 foot fast coastal
interceptor the boat 44 foot tall length
49 foot 3 inches linked overall it's
powered by seven man r6 800 horsepower
Diesel's twin disc gears and Arneson ASD
11 drives full mission load of this boat
is 27,000 pounds and it's capable of
achieving speeds of over 50 plus knots
the bullet will stop of 7.62 nato ball
point-blank and recently was fitted with
almond seats their shock mitigating
seats for lateral and up/down impact if
you said this way you can take a look up
i've suffered several back injuries from
running boats at high rates of speed I'm
not supposed to operate anymore but with
these seats I've been able to operate no
problem
with no back pain for the last five days
launched both several times out the
water and the idea is we modified the
helm station
removing the face of the defect pushing
it back four inches so when the drivers
in operational position he's not
stretching for any of the controls my
wheel my has 10 to 11 o'clock position
my throttle even in full throttle
position I'm not in a stretched or reach
position barble for an injury basically
you can get out you can run your boat
all day in different conditions and your
crew is going to come back fresh they're
not going to come back but cheat and
beaten up from all the conditions that
you run in out there you never know one
major line on it a perfect mirror next
minute you're at six plus seats and this
actually have your crew coming back not
fatigue and it makes third life and
their jobs a whole lot easier you tell
us where the idea was a design came from
we had a customer in the Middle East
they were looking for a craft that could
be placed on a mother ship out in the
Gulf and they could identify a target
but simply sending these boats out at a
high rate of speed identify the target
and they've need be they could stay in
support until additional help could come
with glow and you've had customers all
over the world
like we've had customers all over the
world we've got several inquiries from
different places in the world Far East
Middle East
further south florida US government
hopefully in the future we can get some
contrast with them how about the boat
the boat cable reaches speeds in excess
of 50 plus knots I've seen the boat well
over 55 knots at full combat and I've
been out on it I know it's a smooth ride
and handles well can you can you talk a
little bit about
the boat came from like very big water
it likes to put a lot of air underneath
it I'm technically around this boat in
the Atlantic Ocean at over 53 knots and
six six and a half foot seas with no
problem the impact the boat is a very
solid stout built boat boat this pulls
no surprises on you if you put it into a
turn you can take a turn at well over 50
plus knots and the boat doesn't go in
and I also heard this design was based
on an earlier Coast Guard originally in
the early 80s the US Coast Guard you
tempest yachts
we bought the remaining assets of the
company we got the name and their home
rolls and we resurrected basically the
boat and this is the future boat the
Coast Guard it used to use and how was
the show going for you and it's kind of
neat that you were able to bring the
boat to ibex this year we had a nice
chance bringing the boat over going off
the Alma seas and actually demonstrating
to the boat there's several people out
here to help get our name out so they
can see who we are see our product line
and what we put out and also demonstrate
the shock mitigation seats for drivers
in the future running at high rates of
speed and you just and I heard that you
just came back from a races this year
I was out there with the shares office
they had an intrepid with three 300
horsepower Yamahas on the back and they
challenged me yesterday so he took a
little spin out in the bay and I kind of
walked away from and I was doing circles
around a well over 50 knots and we all
had a good time and come back safely